[DX-999] Updated allow and block list docs (#4027)
TykTechnologies/tyk-docs: tyk-docs/content/product-stack/tyk-gateway/middleware/block-list-tyk-classic.md

                        "headers": {}
                    }
                    "PUT": {
                        "action": "no_action",
                        "code": 200,
                        "headers": {}
                    }            
                }
            }
        ]
    }
}
```

In this example the block list middleware has been configured for HTTP `GET` and `PUT` requests to the `/status/200` endpoint. Requests to these endpoints will be rejected with `HTTP 403 Forbidden`.
Note that the block list has been configured to be case sensitive, so calls to `GET /Status/200` will not be rejected.
Note also that the endpoint path has not been terminated with `$`. Requests to, for example, `GET /status/200/foobar` will be rejected as the [regular expression pattern match]({{< ref "product-stack/tyk-gateway/middleware/block-list-middleware#endpoint-parsing" >}}) will recognise this as `GET /status/200`.

## Configuring the Block List in the API Designer
You can use the API Designer in the Tyk Dashboard to configure the block list middleware for your Tyk Classic API by following these steps.

#### Step 1: Add an endpoint for the path and select the plugin

> From the **Endpoint Designer** add an endpoint that matches the path for which you want to prevent access. Select the **Blacklist** plugin.

Reviewer: @andyo-tyk Should there be an image for this step?

Author: Deliberately omitted while we continue to use offensive terms in the UI, the instructions are clear enough IMHO

---
title: Using the Block List middleware with Tyk Classic APIs
date: 2024-01-24
description: "Using the Block List middleware with Tyk Classic APIs"

> tags: ["Block list", "middleware", "per-endpoint", "Tyk Classic"]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
tags: ["Block list", "middleware", "per-endpoint", "Tyk Classic", "Tyk Classic APIs"]
```

---

> ## Overview

Reviewer: Remove H2 overview heading so that have page title, introduction paragraph followed by section headings.

> ## Overview

Author: ```suggestion
```

The [block list]({{< ref "product-stack/tyk-gateway/middleware/block-list-middleware" >}}) is a feature designed to block access to specific API endpoints. Tyk Gateway rejects all requests made to endpoints with the block list enabled, returning `HTTP 403 Forbidden`. 

> When working with Tyk Classic APIs the middleware is configured in the Tyk Classic API Definition; this can be done manually within the `.json` file or from the API Designer in the Tyk Dashboard.

Author: ```suggestion
When working with Tyk Classic APIs the middleware is configured in the Tyk Classic API Definition. You can do this via the Tyk Dashboard API or in the API Designer.
```

If you're using the newer Tyk OAS APIs, then check out the [Tyk OAS]({{< ref "product-stack/tyk-gateway/middleware/block-list-tyk-oas" >}}) page.

## Configuring the block list in the Tyk Classic API Definition
To enable and configure the block list you must add a new `black_list` object to the `extended_paths` section of your API definition.

{{< note success >}}
**Note**  

> Historically Tyk followed the out-dated whitelist/blacklist naming convention. We are working to remove this terminology from the product and documentation, however this configuration object currently retains the old name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Historically, Tyk followed the out-dated whitelist/blacklist naming convention. We are working to remove this terminology from the product and documentation, however this configuration object currently retains the old name.
```

The `method_actions` object should be configured as follows, with an entry created for each blocked method on the path:
 - `action`: this should be set to `no_action`
 - `code`: this should be set to `200`
 - `headers` : this should be blank

For example:
```.json  {linenos=true, linenostart=1}
{
    "extended_paths": {
        "black_list": [
            {
                "disabled": false,
                "path": "/status/200",
                "method": "",
                "ignore_case": false,
                "method_actions": {
                    "GET": {
                        "action": "no_action",
                        "code": 200,
                        "headers": {}
                    }
                    "PUT": {
                        "action": "no_action",
                        "code": 200,
                        "headers": {}
                    }            
                }
            }
        ]
    }
}
```

In this example the block list middleware has been configured for HTTP `GET` and `PUT` requests to the `/status/200` endpoint. Requests to these endpoints will be rejected with `HTTP 403 Forbidden`.

> Note:

Author: ```suggestion

```

>  - the block list has been configured to be case sensitive, so calls to `GET /Status/200` will not be rejected

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - The block list has been configured to be case sensitive, so calls to `GET /Status/200` will not be rejected
```

Author: ```suggestion
Note that the block list has been configured to be case sensitive, so calls to `GET /Status/200` will not be rejected.
```

>  - the endpoint path has not been terminated with `$` so requests to, for example, `GET /status/200/foobar` will be rejected as the [regular expression pattern match]({{< ref "product-stack/tyk-gateway/middleware/block-list-middleware#endpoint-parsing" >}}) will recognise this as `GET /status/200`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - The endpoint path has not been terminated with `$`. Thus requests to, for example, `GET /status/200/foobar` will be rejected as the [regular expression pattern match]({{< ref "product-stack/tyk-gateway/middleware/block-list-middleware#endpoint-parsing" >}}) will recognise this as `GET /status/200`
```

Author: ```suggestion
Note also that the endpoint path has not been terminated with `$`. Requests to, for example, `GET /status/200/foobar` will be rejected as the [regular expression pattern match]({{< ref "product-stack/tyk-gateway/middleware/block-list-middleware#endpoint-parsing" >}}) will recognise this as `GET /status/200`.
```

## Configuring the Block List in the API Designer
You can use the API Designer in the Tyk Dashboard to configure the block list middleware for your Tyk Classic API by following these steps.

#### Step 1: Add an endpoint for the path and select the plugin
From the **Endpoint Designer** add an endpoint that matches the path for which you want to prevent access. Select the **Blacklist** plugin.

#### Step 2: Configure the block list
Once you have selected the middleware for the endpoint, the only additional feature that you need to configure is whether to make the middleware case insensitive by selecting **Ignore Case**.

{{< img src="/img/2.10/blacklist.png" alt="Blocklist options" >}}

#### Step 3: Save the API

> Use the *save* or *create* buttons to save the changes and make the block list middleware active.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the *save* or *create* buttons to save the changes and activate the block list middleware.
```
